We thank the referee for a constructive report and answer the points in more detail below. Note in advance that we want to keep the emphasis of this paper on the method in principle and thus keep it short enough to make that point only. We would like to highlight the timeliness of the method given the launch of Gaia and (possibly) last few cycles of Spitzer time. Hence we have not always included a detailed discussion of our responses in the paper, but instead refer the reader to the upcoming, more complete exploration that we are currently working on which is intended to look at the method more critically and in practice.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I was interested in this paper, and initially quite excited about the
method.

0. When I did some calculations of my own, using Sagittarius debris
simulations available to me, I couldn't get the method to work
anything like as well as claimed by the authors, and so my excitement
somewhat dissipated.

1. It seems to me that the emphasis on the Sagittarius stream is
mistaken. The Sagittarius progenitor was large, and its self-gravity
was not negligible. This means that the method proposed by the authors
(which involves neglecting the progenitor's self-gravity) doesn't work
very well for Sagittarius. For example, using Sagittarius disruptions
run in a NFW potential, and implementing the authors' algorithm, I
found that only about 15 or 20 per cent of the debris particles, when
integrated back in the correct potential but without taking into
account self-gravity, returned to within 5 kpc of the progenitor. This
is rather different to the authors' findings. In my simulations, the
progenitor is a bit more massive, and the potential is bit more
complicated. Perhaps that accounts for some of the differences, but
still it has rather shaken my belief in the usefulness and generality
of the authors' method. I think it would be more convincing for the
authors to discard their reliance on LM10's simulations: take a less
massive object for which self-gravity is surely unimportant and
demonstrate that the method works well with perfect simulation
data. Then assess the maximum progenitor mass for which the method
still works.

2. I think the authors' method may have a more valuable role to play
for thinner streams for which the progenitor's self-gravity is less
important. At any rate, the neglect of the selfgravity of the
progenitor must be discussed in the text, and proper cautionary
remarks made.

Response:
In response to points 0-2, we have run a series of 4 new Nbody simulations (i.e. including the effect of self-gravity) of satellite disruption with the same initial orbital conditions (all on Sgr-like orbits), with satellite masses ranging from 2.5 x 10^6 M_sun to 2.5 x 10^9 M_sun, in the triaxial Law and Majewski potential. We have attached a figure that summarizes our findings: we plot the fractions of originally bound particles that recombine through backwards integration as a function of satellite mass, then vary the observational errors to see how this effects the recombination fraction. 

(Note that the number of particles that recombine from backwards integration obviously depends on a recapture criteria. For these plots, we chose when a particle comes within a phase-space distance (D_ps, as defined in the letter) of 2, that the particle is considered "recaptured". Decreasing this factor to 1 decreases the fraction recaptured to ~20%, possibly explaining the discrepancy with the referee? In any case, our algorithm for potential measure does not require strict recapture so does not depend on this somewhat arbitrary choice of limit.)

The top (red) line shows that in the absence of errors, more particles return for the smaller mass satellites and at 2.5 x 10^9 solar masses, the fraction drops significantly (as the referee intuited) due to effects of self-gravity. The subsequent colors represent the number of particles that recombine for each mass as we slowly ramp up the errors: orange shows 1% of the canonical errors we use in the paper, yellow shows 10%, and etc. Recall that the "canonical errors" are 2% distance measurements, 10 km/s radial velocities, and Gaia tangential velocity errors. As you can see, as the errors increase to more realistic values (the black and blue lines), the number of particles that recombine to the low mass satellites drops substantially, whereas the effect is smaller for the larger mass cases. 

This figure clearly supports the statements in the paper that: (i) this method should work for a satellite of order Sgr current mass (from ~10^7-10^9 solar masses); (ii) the method needs to be refined for larger masses; and (iii) that observational errors will degrade the accuracy for the very smallest tidal streams. Note that with no errors, the recombination fraction drops significantly between 10^8 and 10^9 solar masses: if the referee ran tests with a more massive satellite this might offer another explanation for why the method did not do as well. This does not effect the applicability of the method to real data: aside from the Magellenic clouds, Sgr is the most massive disrupting satellite.

We included a brief discussion of the above points in a revised paragraph in the discussion section.

Text changes:
"It is also important to characterize the the limitations of this
method. Firstly, the measurement errors for RR Lyraes associated with
the very coldest streams \citep[e.g., the globular clusters Pal5 and
  GD1;][]{odenkirchen02,koposov10} will likely be too large to resolve
the minute differences in orbital properties between the debris and
satellite. Second, the present prescription neglects orbital evolution (e.g.,
dynamical friction) and scattering of stream stars due to the potential
of the satellite itself. Preliminary simulations (to be fully explored in 
forthcoming work) suggest that these first two points can be neglected 
for satellite masses between $\sim$$10^7$ and $\sim$$10^9~\mathrm{M}_{\odot}$. Lastly, the current version of the algorithm
relies on accurate knowledge of the current position and velocity of
the parent satellite, which may not be available 
\citep[for example, the Orphan Stream;][]{belokurov07}."

3. The authors should at least acknowledge that the observational
situation has changed with the work in Belokurov et al. (2013) and
that Law & Majewski's model does not fit the more recent data on the
trailing arm. The paragraph describing LM10's work at the bottom of
page 3 needs toning done. At present, it suggests that all problems
have been solved ("... detailed reconstruction of Sgr's history: its
mass and stellar populations, orbit, rate of destruction and even
original distribution in populations"), whereas this really isn't the
case! Also, recent work has pointed to a more substantial progenitor
than LM10 used in tehir simulations, which means that the neglect of
the self-gravity of the progenitor is still less acceptable. To write
that LM10 have provided "the first assessment of the three-dimensional
mass distribution of a dark matter halo" without further qualification
is wide of the mark. There has been a substantial amount of effort on
mapping out the three-dimensional mass distribution of dark halos in a
number of fields of astronomy by a huge variety of techniques over the
last 20 years.

Response:
We agree with the referee's suggestion of qualifications to this section. It was really limited in the original version because the emphasis of the paper to be on the method and not a discussion of Sgr. We have added a sentence describing the recent work by Belokurov and "toned down" the LM10 description as requested.

Text changes:
"However, new observational work by Belokurov et al. 2013 suggest that the trailing tail of Sgr debris does not match the LM10 model."
and
"A comparison of simulations and data enabled LM10 to make an assessment of the three-dimensional mass distribution of the Milky Way's dark matter halo through the constraints on the potential parameters $v_{\rm halo}$, $q_1$, $q_z$, and $\phi$. Combined {\it Spitzer} and {\it Gaia} measurements of distances and proper motions of RR Lyrae in the Sgr debris will open up new avenues for potential constraints. Figure~\ref{fig:gaia_errors} shows that a 2\% distance error is smaller than the distance range in the stream (top panel). Similarly, {\it Gaia} proper motion error estimates correspond to tangential velocity errors less than the velocity dispersion for much of the stream (bottom panel). The next section outlines a  new method to take advantage of this information.""

4. Figure 3 is rather concerning. At face value, it seems to suggest
that Rewinder returns debris to the progenitor when the progenitor is
at apocenter. This is where we expect least stars to be stripped, but
we expect the most bunching up of the population and the largest tidal
radius. It looks as though those effects are skewing the minimization.

Response:
As the referee notes, most particles should be stripped close to pericentric passage. We have included another figure that shows the mass-loss from the satellite that illustrates this point. In this figure, the green line shows the fraction of stars that are "bound" at each timestep of backwards-integration (as defined by crossing a boundary of D_ps=2) for a random sample of 1000 stars from one of our own simulations (M_sgr = 2.5E8). The grey lines shows the "true" fraction of bound particles as a function of time, as produced by a rough energy criteria during the simulation run.

As the referee notes, during backwards-integration, particles that were disrupted at pericenter appear to be recaptured earlier (though not at apocenter -- somewhere between apocenter and pericenter). However, note that i) on average we do reproduce the mass-loss, ii) there is a nonzero slope between apocenter and pericenter, so stars do unbind over the entire orbit, and iii) this early recombination does not appear to inflict a strong bias on the inferred parameters. This said, it is certainly an interesting point and something we will explore further in forthcoming work. In the mean time, we have removed the orbit of the progenitor from figure 3 so as not to distract the reader from the simple illustration we are trying to convey.

Text changes:
Updated figure 3.

5. It is unclear from Figure 3 whether the 10 orbits displayed are
representative. Have the authors selected the 10 best orbits, or 10
randomly chosen orbits? Really, it is the latter that should be done
to demonstrate the efficacy of the algorithm. In any case, it would be
good to see some statistics on the ensemble of orbits. What percentage
of the orbits return to the progenitor? In my experiments, this is
between 15 and 20 per cent.

Response:
The ten orbits have been randomly sampled, and we have added this clarification to the text. We have also included an explicit statement about the fraction of particles that recombine given a D_ps boundary of 2.

Text changes: 
(figure caption)
"Phase space distance (D_ps) for 10 randomly selected stars integrated backwards in the correct potential (top) and a potential where q_z is 25% larger (bottom)."
and
"Qualitatively, when the distance in this normalized six-dimensional
space, $D_{{\rm ps},i}=\sqrt{|\bs{q}_{i}|^2+|\bs{p}_{i}|^2} \lesssim 2$, 
the star is likely recaptured by the satellite (in the absence of errors,
 we find that ~90% of the initially bound particles come within
 this limit when integrating all orbits backwards)."

6. It is not clear from eq (6) what effects are taken into account in
the normalization. In practice, the orbital radius, mass of the
satellite and enclosed mass are all changing with time. Are all these
effects taken into account when the normalization is applied to the
coordinates in eq (5)?

Response:
We agree that this could be made more explicit in the text. The time-dependence of the orbital radius / enclosed mass (e.g., the escape velocity and tidal radius) are taken into account, but the mass of the satellite is not. We assume the mass of the satellite is just the present-day mass from the simulations, but the results are only very weakly dependent on this value. Since the satellite mass only enters through the tidal radius as a cube-root and the escape velocity as a square-root, it's reasonable to neglect the mass loss even if we assume the mass of Sgr has changed by a factor of 3 over the interaction time. (In principle we could add the mass loss history as an additional parameter.)

Text changes:
"These quantities are computed at each time step to take the time dependence into account, neglecting mass-loss from the satellite."

7. The paper links to videos which claim to illustrate stars
recombining within the progenitor. It looks to me like they are being
swallowed over a very large volume, though it is admittedly hard to
tell. As they stand, I am afraid the videos have little scientific
value, because whatever is happening in the videos is not documented
nor explained. Either the footnotes to the videos should be removed
from the paper, or the videos should be properly documented in the main 
text of the paper.

Response:
There was an error in the initial version where instead of drawing a circle with a radius equal to the tidal radius, the diameter was set to the tidal radius -- this has been fixed, and we thank the referee for catching this bug. We have also added some further explanation to the videos on figshare. We think they illustrate the method conceptually very well and would like to leave the reference in the text to this resource. However, if the referee is still unhappy with this revision, we can take this reference out of the text. 

???(TODO: upload new videos)???

8. Figure 4 has no vertical axis scale at all and so is not easy to
interpret.

Response:
The numerical values of the objective function (the generalized variance) are not interesting, but rather the shape of the function shows that there is a minimum at the true value of each parameter. 

Text changes: 
(caption)
"1D slices of the objective function (generalized variance) for each halo potential parameter. The parameter values are normalized by the true values and show the effect of varying each parameter by $\pm10$\%. The values of the objective function (vertical axis) are not interesting, but note the minima around the truth (1.0) for each parameter."

9. It is difficult to reconcile the remarks in Section 4 on the Orphan
Stream and GD1 with the work of Sanders & Binney referenced in the
Introduction. In Section 4, it is stated that measurement errors are
too large to resolve "the minute differences between debris and
satellite". But, as Sanders & Binney show, even for the "thinnest,
coldest streams", the debris does not trace a single orbit and the
"bias is equally problematic" (Introduction). If the debris does not
trace an orbit for GD1 and the Orphan, then the differences are not
minute, and Rewinder should work.

We like the Sanders & Binney work too, and agree that there is an offset in orbits for even the thinnest streams (e.g. Johnston 1998 for our own statement of the effect). The reason our method is not expected to work for the thinnest/coldest streams is that, while there is always an offset, the offset does depend on the mass of the satellite (see Johnston et al 1998 for the scaling of this offset in energy). Hence, while the _scaled_ offset is always the same, the absolute offset is much smaller for thinner streams. Our method depends critically on being able to measure this offset for each star, so once the measurement errors are big enough, the method will degrade for the thinner streams (see discussion of points 0-2 and figure). This is not a contradiction of the Sanders & Binney work. 

